adding my first two articles to kb (#1009)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-ci/github-reusable-workflows-semgrep.md

2. The content of the file can be copied from Semgrep [documentation](https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs/#sample-github-actions-configuration-file)

But some changes need to be made in the `on:` statement (basically, the conditions to trigger the job must be in the caller, not here). So we can define the file as follow:

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-2.png)

3. In each repository, you can call to the reusable workflow as shown in the next example:

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-3.png)

> Note: Secrets can be inherited from the reusable workflow and passed to the caller workflow.

## Running a scan

Now, if a developer commits a change or makes a pull request (or otherwise in any way triggers the caller workflow), then the reusable Semgrep workflow will be called:

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-4.png)

## Benefits

1. As GitHub [says](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows#overview): “Reusing workflows avoids duplication. This makes workflows easier to maintain and allows you to create new workflows more quickly by building on the work of others, just as you do with actions”.

> 2. It works very well for push, pull requests and schedule events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A reusable workflow can be triggered by several types of events, such as a push, pull_request, or schedule. In contrast, a required workflow can only be triggered by pull_request events.
```

---
tags:
  - Github
  - Reusable workflows
description: Setting up GitHub reusable workflows for Semgrep scans.
---

> # GitHub Reusable workflows and Semgrep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# GitHub reusable workflows and Semgrep
```

## Motivation

> An organization can have hundreds or thousands of repositories. Reusable workflow comes to simplify the file: `.github/workflows/semgrep.yml` for each repository in your organization because you can call a workflow (such as semgrep scans) from there, which avoids code duplication and gives one centralized configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An organization can have hundreds or thousands of repositories. Reusable workflows can simplify the `.github/workflows/semgrep.yml` file in each of your repositories by allowing you to define the workflow once and then referencing it more simply in other workflows, which avoids code duplication and gives one centralized configuration.
```

## Setting up a reusable workflow

> 
> We can follow the next steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Create a new repository with the reusable workflow:

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-1.png)

> > Note: semgrep.yml file must be in the folder `.github/workflows/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: the semgrep.yml file must be in the `.github/workflows/` folder
```

> 2. The content of the file can be copied from Semgrep [documentation](https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs/#sample-github-actions-configuration-file)
> 
> But some changes need to be made in the `on:` statement (basically, the conditions to trigger the job must be in the caller, not here). So we can define the file as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The content of the file can be copied from the Semgrep [documentation](https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs/#sample-github-actions-configuration-file) but some changes need to be made in the `on:` statement. Basically, the condition to trigger the job must be in the caller, not here. So we can create the file as follows:
```

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-2.png)

> 3. In each repository, you can call to the reusable workflow as shown in the next example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Then, in each repository, you can call the reusable workflow as shown here:
```

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-3.png)

> > Note: Secrets can be inherited and passed to the reusable workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Secrets can be inherited from the reusable workflow and passed to the caller workflow.
```

## Running a scan

> Now if a developer commits a change and provokes a push or pull request (or a scheduled event is triggered), then the reusable workflow will be called, in this case, the semgrep workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if a developer commits a change or makes a pull request (or otherwise in any way triggers the caller workflow), then the reusable Semgrep workflow will be called:
```

![image info](/img/kb/reusable-workflows-image-4.png)

## Benefits

1. As GitHub [says](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows#overview): “Reusing workflows avoids duplication. This makes workflows easier to maintain and allows you to create new workflows more quickly by building on the work of others, just as you do with actions”.

> 2. It works very well for push, pull requests and schedule events.

Reviewer: I'm not so sure this line is necessary/counts as a real benefit of reusable workflows.

Author: Maybe it is better to say: A reusable workflow can be triggered for any type of event: push, pull_request, or schedule, in opposition to a required workflow that can only be triggered by pull_request events.

Reviewer: Sure that works, I would write it as:

A reusable workflow can be triggered by several types of events, such as a push, pull_request, or schedule. In contrast, a required workflow can only be triggered by pull_request events.

> 2. It works very well for push, pull requests and schedule events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Before removing this line, check my previous comment @sinat101

    
## Drawbacks

> 1. Reusable workflows don’t avoid the creation of file `.github/workflows/semgrep.yml` for each repo. You need to create it to insert the call to the reusable workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reusable workflows don’t avoid the creation of a `.github/workflows/semgrep.yml` file for each repo. You still need to create one to then insert a call to the reusable workflow.
```
